[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
rachel burden and
charlie state our headlines today all
travelers arriving in the uk from monday
will have to quarantine as the
government closes all so-called travel
corridors to prevent new strains
entering the country tougher lockdown
restrictions come into force in scotland
to tackle what's been described
as a very serious situation 100 million
vaccines in 100 days the ambitious
target set out by joe biden when he
becomes president of the united states
good morning a captain's innings from
joe root he scores a double centuries
england opened up a big lead
over sri lanka in the first test
morning all it's a messy start to our
saturday morning
a combination of rain sleet and snow
sweeping its way steadily east but into
the afternoon
sunny spells and scattered showers all
the details from me
throughout the morning
[Music]
morning it's saturday the 16th of
january our top story this morning all
travel corridors into the uk
will be closed from monday the prime
minister has announced
the change means anyone traveling to the
uk will need proof
of a negative covered test they'll also
need to
isolate on arrival for at least five
days
charlotte wright has this report
another measure to tighten up travel
this week saw passengers from south
america
and portugal banned from flying into the
uk
to stop the spread of a new coveted
strain from brazil
but the government says it may be
difficult to predict where new variants
might come from
and so further action is needed to
protect us
against the risk of as yet unidentified
new strains we will also temporarily
close
all travel corridors from 0-400
hours on monday this latest announcement
is not a travel
ban it introduces quarantine for
passengers
no matter where they've flown from in
the world it means from monday anyone
traveling to the uk will have to show a
negative covert test
less than 72 hours before they depart
when they arrive they must now
self-isolate for 10 days
or pay for a covered test on the fifth
day if it's negative they can leave
quarantine early
the policy also applies to the eurostar
and seaports
but not to those traveling within the uk
or ireland
or to some jobs like julia's
travel corridors were first introduced
in the summer
allowing people to come to the uk from
some countries with low covert rates
without having to quarantine on arrival
described as a lifeline for the industry
they kept people going on holiday
now many say they support the suspension
so long as it can be lifted later in the
year
we've had no revenue now effectively for
uh 12 months
and give or take a few months in in the
summer last year
um if we're going to have an aviation
sector coming out of this we need to
open up in
in the summer we look forward to having
conversations with the government about
that but
for the here and now um we are
absolutely clear that we will support
the government i think the government
needs a longer term plan for
the airline industry they've been hit
time and time again
and they rightly have asked the
government for support they were
promising
months ago but that package hasn't been
put in place
the government says it has provided a
comprehensive package of measures for
the travel and tourism sector
including extending the furlough scheme
business rates relief
and tax deferrals it says it's committed
to helping bring the sector back to full
strength
as soon as it's safe to do so charlotte
wright bbc news
scotland's covid restrictions are being
tightened from
today takeaway food and drink outlets
can only serve customers
via a hatch and only shop selling
essential items
are allowed to offer click and collect
the changes are among six new rules
announced by first minister nicolas
sturgeon earlier this week
police chiefs say that investigations
have been compromised after thousands of
fingerprint dna
and arrest records were accidentally
deleted from the national computer
a letter sent by the national police
chief's council and seen by bbc news
says the mistake might prevent officers
from linking offenders to crime scenes
policing minister kit malthouse said
officers are trying to recover the data
a clinical trial involving 10 000 people
in the uk
has shown that using blood plasma as a
treatment for coronavirus
doesn't reduce deaths among hospital
patients
researchers say they're incredibly
grateful to everyone who took part in
the research but that they're no longer
seeking plasma no nations
final results of the study will be
published soon
the u.s president-elect joe biden has
set out ambitious plans to vaccinate a
hundred million americans within his
first 100 days in office
he made the pledge as his health chiefs
warned that the coveted variant first
detected in the uk
could become the dominant strain in the
u.s by march
our north america correspondent peter
bose has this report
in a city where officials believe one in
three of its population has been
infected with kovic 19
since the start of the pandemic there's
a sense of urgency
hospitals in los angeles are overwhelmed
here
someone is dying from the virus every
eight minutes
it's rough to see people who are really
sick and we
have to tell them there's not much we
can do we can take you to the hospital
but to sit on these gurneys it's not
comfy
the race is on to get as many people
vaccinated as soon as possible
this is the car park at dodger stadium
the baseball venue in los angeles that's
being transformed
into the largest vaccination site in
america by the middle of next week
officials say at least 12 000 people a
day
will receive the kovit job here but it
isn't enough
we've got to increase the pace and
distribution in the administration
of these vaccines the reality is we need
to get these vaccines out of the freezer
and we need to get them into people's
arms
this is a scene that's playing out
around the country around the world
but america's so-called operation warp
speed
has failed to live up to its name at
least as far as distribution of the
vaccine is concerned
joe biden says when he takes over from
donald trump on wednesday
he'll launch an ambitious plan to roll
it out fast
he said efforts so far had been a dismal
failure
our plan is as clear as it is bold
get more people vaccinated for free
create more places for them to get
vaccinated
mobilize more medical teams to get shots
in people's arms
he's promising a hundred million jobs in
a hundred days
a hundred mass vaccination centers
around the country
and mobile units to get into areas that
are hard to reach
the president-elect also had a blunt
warning for americans
things he said would get worse before
they get better
peter bose bbc news los angeles
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news